Latest 5.12.0 RNs (GW & Dashboard).mdx (#1466)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/dashboard.mdx

**Simplified Management of Versioned Tyk OAS APIs**

Managing versioned API hierarchies is now much easier and safer. We've introduced the ability to promote any child API version to become the new base (routing) API directly from the Dashboard UI, seamlessly transferring routing configurations without service disruption.

Additionally, we've improved the experience of deleting a base API. Instead of manually cleaning up orphaned child APIs, you are now presented with clear, intelligent options: promote a child to the new base, delete all associated child APIs together, or leave them as independent APIs. These enhancements eliminate manual cleanup work and give administrators full control over their API lifecycles.

**Enhanced Security with Client Certificate-Token Binding**

To provide an additional layer of security for your APIs, we've introduced Dashboard support for [Client Certificate-Token Binding](/api-management/authentication/auth-token#client-certificate-token-binding). This feature allows you to form a strict binding association between an Auth Token issued to a client and their specific client certificate.

> By ensuring that a token can be used only with its bound certificate, you can significantly reduce the risk of token theft or misuse. You can now easily manage these bindings directly from the Dashboard when creating or modifying keys, with full support for certificate rotation scenarios by allowing multiple certificates to be bound to a single key.

Reviewer: This is dublicate?

---

## 5.12 Release Notes 

#### Release Date xx February 2026

### 5.12.0 Release Notes 

> In this release, . For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v5.12.0).

Reviewer: Pending

| [Redis](https://redis.io/download/)   | 5.x, 6.x, 7.x    |  5.x, 6.x, 7.x    | | 
| [Valkey](https://valkey.io/download/) | 8.0.x, 8.1.x    | 7.2.x, 8.0.x, 8.1.x    | | 
| [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community)  | 6, 7, 8  | 5, 6, 7, 8  | | 
| [DocumentDB](https://aws.amazon.com/documentdb/)  | 4, 5  | 4, 5  | | 
| [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) | 13.x - 17.x | 13.x - 17.x  | | 
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3) | v3.0.x | v3.0.x | Supported by [Tyk OAS](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas#tyk-vendor-extension-reference)|

#### Deprecations

There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions
<a id="upgrade-5.12.0"></a>

If you are upgrading to 5.12.0, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk). 

#### Downloads

- [Docker Image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-dashboard/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.12.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-dashboard:v5.12.0
    ```
- Helm charts
  - [tyk-charts v5.1.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#5-1-0-release-notes)

> Please note that the Tyk Helm Charts are configured to install the LTS version of Tyk Dashboard. You will need to modify them to install v5.12.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Note>
Tyk Helm Charts are configured to install the LTS version of Tyk Dashboard. You will need to modify them to install v5.12.0.
</Note>
```

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.12.0" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Added

<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Enhanced Base API Management for Versioned Tyk OAS APIs'>
Improved the experience when managing versioned Tyk OAS APIs by adding flexible options for base API deletion and reassignment. When deleting a base API that has child versions, users are now presented with three clear options:
- Promote a child API to become the new base (automatically transferring versioning configuration and converting the original base to a child)
- Delete all associated child APIs together
- Leave child APIs orphaned (previous behavior)

The Dashboard now includes a new API endpoint to convert child APIs into base APIs, preserving all routing configurations and version identifiers while ensuring seamless traffic handling. Additionally, added a `purge` parameter to the delete API endpoint that allows bulk deletion of base APIs along with all their child versions. These enhancements eliminate the manual work previously required to manage orphaned APIs and provide administrators with clear, safe options for restructuring versioned API hierarchies without service disruption.

> </Accordion>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Enhanced Base API Management for Versioned Tyk OAS APIs'>
Improved the experience when managing versioned Tyk OAS APIs by adding flexible options for base API deletion and reassignment. When deleting a base API that has child versions, users are now presented with three clear options:
- Promote a child API to become the new base (automatically transferring versioning configuration and converting the original base to a child)
- Delete all associated child APIs together
- Leave child APIs orphaned (previous behavior)

The Dashboard now includes a new API endpoint to convert child APIs into base APIs, preserving all routing configurations and version identifiers while ensuring seamless traffic handling. Additionally, added a `purge` parameter to the delete API endpoint that enables bulk deletion of base APIs and all their child versions.

These enhancements eliminate the manual work previously required to manage orphaned APIs and provide administrators with clear, safe options for restructuring versioned API hierarchies without service disruption.
</Accordion>
```

> </Accordion>
> 
> <Accordion title='JSON Log Format Support for Dashboard'>
> Added JSON log format option for the Tyk Dashboard to improve log processing and integration with monitoring tools. Users can now configure the Dashboard to output logs in structured JSON format instead of the default text format by setting the `TYK_LOGFORMAT` or `TYK_DB_LOGFORMAT` environment variables to "json", or by configuring `log_format: "json"` in the Dashboard configuration file. This feature provides consistency with the Gateway's JSON logging capabilities and enables better log ingestion by centralized logging systems, SIEM tools, and observability platforms. The configuration is case-insensitive and falls back to the standard text format for any invalid values, ensuring backward compatibility and reliable operation.
> </Accordion>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='JSON Log Format Support for Dashboard'>
Added JSON log format option for the Tyk Dashboard to improve log processing and integration with monitoring tools. Users can now configure the Dashboard to output logs in structured JSON format instead of the default text format by setting the `TYK_LOGFORMAT` or `TYK_DB_LOGFORMAT` environment variables to "json", or by configuring `log_format: "json"` in the Dashboard configuration file. 

This feature provides consistency with the Gateway's JSON logging capabilities and enables better log ingestion by centralized logging systems, SIEM tools, and observability platforms. The configuration is case-insensitive and falls back to the standard text format for any invalid values, ensuring backward compatibility and reliable operation.
</Accordion>
```

---

## 5.12 Release Notes 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

### 5.12.0 Release Notes

```

#### Release Date xx February 2026

> ### 5.12.0 Release Notes 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Release Highlights
```

> In this release, . For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v5.12.0).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

**OpenAPI Specification 3.1 is now supported**

In this release we are delighted to bring initial support for OAS 3.1 covering:

- import and validation of OpenAPI 3.1 descriptions using Tyk Dashboard to create Tyk OAS APIs
- OAS 3.1 features:
    - Full JSON Schema Support and $schema keyword
    - the single `example` keyword is deprecated in OAS 3.1
    - `type` can be an array
    - exclusiveMinimum and exclusiveMaximum keywords

We do not yet have support for all new features. For more details, see the [documentation]](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas#openapi-specification-3.1)

** **
** **

For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v5.12.0).
```

|--------|-------------------|-------------|
| 5.12.0 | MDCB v2.9.0       | MDCB v2.9.0 |
|        | Operator v1.3.0   | Operator v0.17 |
|        | Sync v2.1.6       | Sync v2.1.0 |
|        | Helm Chart v5.1   | Helm all versions |
|        | EDP v1.17.0       | EDP all versions |
|        | Pump v1.14.0      | Pump all versions |
|        | TIB (if using standalone) v1.7.0 | TIB all versions |

##### 3rd Party Dependencies & Tools
<a id="3rdPartyTools-v5.11.1"></a>

| Third Party Dependency | Tested Versions | Compatible Versions | Comments | 
| ---------------------- | --------------- | ------------------- | -------- | 
| [GoLang](https://go.dev/dl/)          | 1.24 | 1.24 | [Go plugins](/api-management/plugins/golang) must be built using Go 1.24 | 
| [Redis](https://redis.io/download/)   | 5.x, 6.x, 7.x    |  5.x, 6.x, 7.x    | | 
| [Valkey](https://valkey.io/download/) | 8.0.x, 8.1.x    | 7.2.x, 8.0.x, 8.1.x    | | 
| [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community)  | 6, 7, 8  | 5, 6, 7, 8  | | 
| [DocumentDB](https://aws.amazon.com/documentdb/)  | 4, 5  | 4, 5  | | 
| [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) | 13.x - 17.x | 13.x - 17.x  | | 

> | [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3) | v3.0.x | v3.0.x | Supported by [Tyk OAS](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas#tyk-vendor-extension-reference)|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.2.html) | v3.1.x | v3.1.x | Supported by [Tyk OAS](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas)|
```

| [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community)  | 6, 7, 8  | 5, 6, 7, 8  | | 
| [DocumentDB](https://aws.amazon.com/documentdb/)  | 4, 5  | 4, 5  | | 
| [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) | 13.x - 17.x | 13.x - 17.x  | | 
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3) | v3.0.x | v3.0.x | Supported by [Tyk OAS](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas#tyk-vendor-extension-reference)|

#### Deprecations

There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions
<a id="upgrade-5.12.0"></a>

If you are upgrading to 5.12.0, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk). 

#### Downloads

- [Docker Image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-dashboard/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.12.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-dashboard:v5.12.0
    ```
- Helm charts
  - [tyk-charts v5.1.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#5-1-0-release-notes)

<Note>
Tyk Helm Charts are configured to install the LTS version of Tyk Dashboard. You will need to modify them to install v5.12.0.
</Note>

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.12.0" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Added

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Enhanced Base API Management for Versioned Tyk OAS APIs'>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Change the Tyk OAS Base API Version'>
```

> Improved the experience when managing versioned Tyk OAS APIs by adding flexible options for base API deletion and reassignment. When deleting a base API that has child versions, users are now presented with three clear options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have improved the experience when managing versioned Tyk OAS APIs by adding the ability to promote a child API version to become the base (routing API. The existing base API will be reassigned as a child version.

When deleting a base API from the API Designer, users are now presented with three clear options:
```

> - Promote a child API to become the new base (automatically transferring versioning configuration and converting the original base to a child)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Promote a child API to become the new base (automatically converting the original base API to become a child)
```

> - Delete all associated child APIs together

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Delete all child versions with the base API
```

- Leave child APIs orphaned (previous behavior)

> The Dashboard now includes a new API endpoint to convert child APIs into base APIs, preserving all routing configurations and version identifiers while ensuring seamless traffic handling. Additionally, added a `purge` parameter to the delete API endpoint that enables bulk deletion of base APIs and all their child versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Dashboard API has been extended with:
- the `PATCH /api/apis/oas/{current-base-api-id}/{next-base-api-id}` endpoint that converts a child API into the base API
- an optional `purge` parameter to the `DELETE /api/apis/oas/{apiId}` endpoint that enables bulk deletion of all child APIs when the base API is deleted.
```

These enhancements eliminate the manual work previously required to manage orphaned APIs and provide administrators with clear, safe options for restructuring versioned API hierarchies without service disruption.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='JSON Log Format Support for Dashboard'>

> Added JSON log format option for the Tyk Dashboard to improve log processing and integration with monitoring tools. Users can now configure the Dashboard to output logs in structured JSON format instead of the default text format by setting the `TYK_LOGFORMAT` or `TYK_DB_LOGFORMAT` environment variables to "json", or by configuring `log_format: "json"` in the Dashboard configuration file. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Tyk Dashboard now supports [application logging](/api-management/logs#application-logs) in structured JSON format. To enable this feature, set the environment variable `TYK_DB_LOGFORMAT` to `json`.
```

> This feature provides consistency with the Gateway's JSON logging capabilities and enables better log ingestion by centralized logging systems, SIEM tools, and observability platforms. The configuration is case-insensitive and falls back to the standard text format for any invalid values, ensuring backward compatibility and reliable operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature provides consistency with the Gateway's JSON log format option (introduced in Tyk 5.6.0) and enables better log ingestion by centralized logging systems, SIEM tools, and observability platforms. The configuration is case-insensitive and falls back to the standard text format for any invalid values, ensuring backward compatibility and reliable operation.
```

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Full CRUD Operations Support for Custom Policy IDs in Dashboard API'>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Full Support for Custom Policy IDs in Dashboard API'>
```

> Enhanced the Dashboard API to support complete CRUD operations (create, read, update, delete) using custom policy IDs in addition to existing database IDs. Users can now perform all policy management operations using the custom `id` field they assign to policies, providing more intuitive and consistent policy management workflows. The system includes configurable uniqueness enforcement for custom policy IDs within organizations through the new `EnforceUniquePolicyID` configuration option, preventing duplicate IDs and ensuring data integrity. API endpoints now prioritize custom ID lookups while maintaining full backward compatibility with database `_id` operations for existing integrations. When ambiguous states occur (multiple policies with the same custom ID), the system returns clear error messages with appropriate HTTP status codes. This enhancement streamlines policy management for users who prefer meaningful, custom identifiers over auto-generated database IDs, while ensuring existing workflows remain unaffected and providing administrators with flexible control over ID uniqueness enforcement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Dashboard API's policy management endpoints now support the recommended Policy ID (`id`) for all operations. Previously the API only supported the Policy Database ID (`_id`) for some operations, which could cause problems when  migrating policies between environments. For reasons of backward compatibility, the Policy Database ID is still supported.

Users are advised to avoid the use of duplicate Policy IDs to minimise the risk of ambiguous interpretation.

This enhancement streamlines policy management for users who prefer meaningful, custom identifiers over auto-generated database IDs, while ensuring existing workflows remain unaffected.
```

The AI proposed log entry does not match what was implemented. It seems to ignore content that has been crossed out in the ticket description.

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='API Definition Compression for Reduced Redis Storage Usage'>

Reviewer 2: Please move this to Gateway section

> Added configurable compression for API definitions stored in Redis to significantly reduce storage costs and improve performance for large-scale deployments. The Gateway now supports Zstd compression for API definition backups, achieving large size reduction for large Tyk OAS APIs with embedded OpenAPI specifications. This feature is particularly beneficial for enterprises with hundreds or thousands of APIs, where storage costs and Redis memory usage can become substantial. Compression is controlled via the new `storage.enable_api_definition_compression` configuration option (default: false) and operates during API reloads rather than in the request hot path, ensuring no impact on API response times. The implementation includes automatic format detection for backward compatibility, allowing mixed compressed and uncompressed data during upgrades.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Added optional compression for API definitions stored in Redis to significantly reduce storage costs and improve performance for distributed deployments. Up to 75% compression ratios have been observed with Tyk OAS APIs.

The new `storage.enable_api_definition_compression` configuration option will apply compression to API definitions when they are stored in the Data Plane Redis cache. This does not take place in the hot path (during request handling) so has no impact on API response times.

This feature is only applicable to distributed deployments using MDCB and the default is `false`.
```

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Certificate-Token Binding Support in Dashboard API for Static mTLS'>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Client Certificate-Token Binding>
```

> Added Dashboard API support for certificate-token binding with static mTLS authentication to enhance security and prevent cross-organizational credential misuse. The Dashboard now supports the new `mtls_static_certificate_bindings` field in key objects, allowing administrators to specify which client certificates can be used with specific access tokens. This field can be configured when creating or updating keys through all Dashboard API endpoints (policy-based keys, API-specific keys) and is properly persisted in Redis alongside session state data. The enhancement enables fine-grained control over certificate-token associations, preventing scenarios where one organization's token could be combined with another organization's certificate to gain unauthorized access. Multiple certificates can be bound to each key to support certificate rotation scenarios, and the feature maintains full backward compatibility with existing keys that don't specify certificate bindings. This Dashboard-level support complements the Gateway's certificate-token validation, providing a complete solution for secure static mTLS implementations in multi-tenant environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have added support for [Client Certificate-Token Binding](/api-management/authentication/auth-token#client-certificate-token-binding), adding an additional layer of security by forming a binding association between the Auth Token issued to a client and their client certificate.

When creating or modifying a key that grants access to an API secured using Auth Token with a static mTLS allow list, you now have the option to bind a client certificate with the key (token).

Note that this certificate must also be added to the client certificate allow list in the API definition to ensure that the certificate validation that occurs after the mTLS handshake is successful.

Multiple client certificates can be bound to each key to support certificate rotation scenarios, and the feature maintains full backward compatibility with existing keys that don't specify certificate bindings.
```

</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Enhanced Dashboard UI for API Management and Authentication'>
Improved the Dashboard user interface across multiple areas of API management and authentication:
- **API Debug Panel Visualization**: Enhanced the OAS API Designer's debug panel to clearly differentiate between request and response middleware processing stages. Added visual distinction for the Reverse Proxy step and implemented color-coded headers for request and response middleware sections. Users can now click on middleware steps to scroll to their position in the timeline, providing better visibility into the complete request processing flow.
- **Base API Management for Versioned APIs**: Added comprehensive UI support for managing versioned Tyk OAS APIs, including base API reassignment and intelligent deletion options. Users can now promote any child API to become the new base API directly from the versions table, with automatic transfer of versioning and routing configurations. When deleting a base API, the Dashboard presents three clear options: promote a child API to become the new base, delete all associated child APIs together, or leave child APIs as independent APIs.

> - **Certificate Authentication Method**: Redesigned certificate authentication configuration by separating it from Auth Token authentication into a standalone method called "Certificate Authentication" (previously Dynamic mTLS). Updated both Tyk Classic and OAS API designers to include Certificate Authentication as an independent authentication option available for multi-auth configurations. Enhanced the key creation interface with clearer labeling, improved guidance text, and documentation links.

Reviewer 2: Certificate Auth needs to be a separate section, not listed under here.

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='OpenAPI Specification 3.1 Support in Dashboard and Gateway'>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='OpenAPI Specification 3.1 Support'>
```

This should be at or near the top of the change log

> Added comprehensive support for OpenAPI Specification 3.1 across the Tyk platform, enabling users to work with the latest OpenAPI standard alongside existing 3.0 specifications:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have added initial support for OpenAPI Specification 3.1, enabling the use of OpenAPI descriptions complying with OAS 3.1.x with Tyk:
```

> - **API Designer Integration**: Enhanced the Dashboard's API Designer to automatically detect and support both OpenAPI 3.0.x and 3.1.x specifications. The raw API editor now provides correct syntax validation, highlighting, and autocomplete for both versions without requiring manual configuration. Version detection is automatic, and the UI functions identically regardless of OpenAPI version while maintaining full backward compatibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **API Designer Integration**: Import OAS 3.1 compliant OpenAPI descriptions to create Tyk OAS APIs. The raw API editor does not yet provide live syntax validation and autocomplete for OAS 3.1. Version detection is automatic, so there is no loss in experience when working with OAS 3.0.
```

> - **Document Validation Engine**: Implemented version-aware validation that automatically selects the appropriate validator based on the detected OpenAPI specification version. OpenAPI 3.0 documents continue using existing validation rules, while 3.1 documents leverage the JSON Schema 2020-12 validator to support new features, including type arrays with support, updated JSON Schema keywords, webhooks for callback operations, and SPDX license identifiers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **OpenAPI Document Validation Engine**: The Dashboard automatically selects the appropriate validator based on the detected OpenAPI specification version (OAS 3.0 or OAS3.1). OpenAPI 3.0 documents continue using existing validation rules, while 3.1 documents leverage the JSON Schema 2020-12 validator to support new features, including type arrays with support, updated JSON Schema keywords, webhooks for callback operations, and SPDX license identifiers.
```

> - **Enhanced Numeric Validation**: Added support for OpenAPI 3.1's updated `exclusiveMinimum` and `exclusiveMaximum` properties, which changed from boolean flags (3.0) to numeric values (3.1). The system now correctly handles both syntaxes: the legacy boolean format alongside minimum/maximum properties for 3.0 compatibility, and the direct numeric format for 3.1 specifications, with automatic precedence handling when both formats are present.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

The Dashboard can now correctly read and display all geographic information, including country codes, city names, coordinates, and timezone data from SQL storage. Geographic traffic filtering by country code now works as expected, enabling users to analyze traffic patterns by location when using SQL-based analytics storage.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Fixed API-Specific Key Retrieval in Dashboard'>
Resolved an issue where the Dashboard's `GET /api/apis/{api_id}/keys` endpoint incorrectly returned all keys in the environment instead of only keys associated with the specified API. Users can now accurately retrieve and manage keys for individual APIs, eliminating confusion when working with multi-API environments. Note that the addition of this filtering can lead to minor delays in the response to this endpoint when there are large numbers of APIs and keys.
</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='[UI] Issues Associating Client Certificates with API Keys and Policy ID Display'>

Reviewer 2: Don't preface with [UI]!!

</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Fixed Certificate Re-use After Swapping in Multi-Auth Keys'>
Resolved an issue where swapping certificates in multi-auth (mTLS + Basic auth) keys prevented the original certificate from being reused. Previously, when updating a key's certificate, the original certificate remained incorrectly associated with the key internally, causing "key with given certificate already found" errors when attempting to reuse that certificate. 

Tyk now properly detaches certificates during key updates, allowing certificates to be freely reused across different keys after being removed from their original association.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Improved Experience when License Missing or Expired'>
Fixed inaccurate wording and links on the screen presented on startup when the Dashboard license is missing or has expired.
</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Monaco Editor JSON Schema Support'>

Reviewer 2: Delete this, it's not in the release - we've removed validation for OAS 3.1 - and it's talking about a proposed fix to something that is new in this version.

---

## 5.12 Release Notes 

### 5.12.0 Release Notes

> #### Release Date xx February 2026

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Release Date 06 March 2026
```

#### Release Highlights

**OpenAPI Specification 3.1 is now supported**

In this release we are delighted to bring initial support for OAS 3.1 covering:

- import and validation of OpenAPI 3.1 descriptions using Tyk Dashboard to create Tyk OAS APIs
- OAS 3.1 features:
    - Full JSON Schema Support and $schema keyword
    - the single `example` keyword is deprecated in OAS 3.1
    - `type` can be an array
    - exclusiveMinimum and exclusiveMaximum keywords

We do not yet have support for all new features. For more details, see the [documentation]](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas#openapi-specification-3.1)

** **

> ** **

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Placeholder

This feature provides consistency with the Gateway's JSON log format option (introduced in Tyk 5.6.0) and enables better log ingestion by centralized logging systems, SIEM tools, and observability platforms. The configuration is case-insensitive and falls back to the standard text format for any invalid values, ensuring backward compatibility and reliable operation.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Full Support for Custom Policy IDs in Dashboard API'>
The Dashboard API's policy management endpoints now support the recommended Policy ID (`id`) for all operations. Previously the API only supported the Policy Database ID (`_id`) for some operations, which could cause problems when  migrating policies between environments. For reasons of backward compatibility, the Policy Database ID is still supported.

Users are advised to avoid the use of duplicate Policy IDs to minimise the risk of ambiguous interpretation.

This enhancement streamlines policy management for users who prefer meaningful, custom identifiers over auto-generated database IDs, while ensuring existing workflows remain unaffected.
</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Client Certificate-Token Binding>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Client Certificate-Token Binding'>
```

**Simplified Management of Versioned Tyk OAS APIs**

Managing versioned API hierarchies is now much easier and safer. We've introduced the ability to promote any child API version to become the new base (routing) API directly from the Dashboard UI, seamlessly transferring routing configurations without service disruption.

Additionally, we've improved the experience of deleting a base API. Instead of manually cleaning up orphaned child APIs, you are now presented with clear, intelligent options: promote a child to the new base, delete all associated child APIs together, or leave them as independent APIs. These enhancements eliminate manual cleanup work and give administrators full control over their API lifecycles.

**Enhanced Security with Client Certificate-Token Binding**

To provide an additional layer of security for your APIs, we've introduced Dashboard support for [Client Certificate-Token Binding](/api-management/authentication/auth-token#client-certificate-token-binding). This feature allows you to form a strict binding association between an Auth Token issued to a client and their specific client certificate.

> By ensuring that a token can only be used in conjunction with its bound certificate, you can significantly reduce the risk of token theft or misuse. You can now easily manage these bindings directly from the Dashboard when creating or modifying keys, with full support for certificate rotation scenarios by allowing multiple certificates to be bound to a single key.

Reviewer 3: duplicated

</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Fixed Certificate Re-use After Swapping in Multi-Auth Keys'>
Resolved an issue where swapping certificates in multi-auth (mTLS + Basic auth) keys prevented the original certificate from being reused. Previously, when updating a key's certificate, the original certificate remained incorrectly associated with the key internally, causing "key with given certificate already found" errors when attempting to reuse that certificate. 

Tyk now properly detaches certificates during key updates, allowing certificates to be freely reused across different keys after being removed from their original association.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Improved Experience when License Missing or Expired'>
Fixed inaccurate wording and links on the screen presented on startup when the Dashboard license is missing or has expired.
</Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

##### Security Fixes

<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Security Vulnerabilities Fixed'> 
Multiple high-severity CVEs have been fixed. 
</Accordion>

> </AccordionGroup>

Reviewer: @JoanCamosTyk Are there any CVEs?

| [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community)  | 6, 7, 8  | 5, 6, 7, 8  | | 
| [DocumentDB](https://aws.amazon.com/documentdb/)  | 4, 5  | 4, 5  | | 
| [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) | 13.x - 17.x | 13.x - 17.x  | | 
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.2.html) | v3.1.x | v3.1.x | Supported by [Tyk OAS](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas)|

#### Deprecations

There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions
<a id="upgrade-5.12.0"></a>

If you are upgrading to 5.12.0, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk). 

#### Downloads

- [Docker Image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-dashboard/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.12.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-dashboard:v5.12.0
    ```
- Helm charts
  - [tyk-charts v5.1.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#5-1-0-release-notes)

<Note>
Tyk Helm Charts are configured to install the LTS version of Tyk Dashboard. You will need to modify them to install v5.12.0.
</Note>

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.12.0" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Added

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Added basic support for OpenAPI 3.1 (OAS v3.1.x)'>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Added support for OpenAPI 3.1 (OAS v3.1.x)'>
```
